README.md, before:

# Numerical physics class project

Many body simulation (FMM method)

---

## Project organisation

- [src](./src): production source code
- [design](./design): algorithm design scripts/notebooks
- [doc](./doc): documentation
- [test](./test): tests and data analysis

## Handling jupyter notebooks

Notebooks may be pushed in the `test` and `design` folders **without the output** which can be very heavy.

## Using `uv`

### Handle python packages

- Install a library: `uv add <library>`
- Remove a library: `uv remove <library>`
- Install libraries from `pyproject.toml`: `uv sync`

### Run python scripts

- In an editor supporting it (VSCode, PyCharm, etc...), activate the virtual environement of the project after installing it with `uv sync`.
- Run `uv run <script>`, or just `python <script>` with the environment of the project activated.

### Run tests

After running `uv sync`, you can run the tests in the `test` directory with the following command:

```bash
uv run pytest test/*.py -s
```

Commit message:

update READMEs, add requirements.txt

README.md, after:

# Numerical physics class project

Many body simulation (FMM method)

---

## Project organisation

- [src](./src): production source code.
- [design](./design): algorithm design scripts/notebooks. Please note that the design is not up to date with the final implementation. It is also not particularly readable.
- [doc](./doc): documentation.
- [test](./test): tests and data analysis.
- [cpp](./cpp): C++ implementation of the FMM algorithm.

## Installation (python part)

### With `uv`

[`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/#highlights) is recommended to have the right python version installed, as it manages both python versions and packages.

```bash
uv sync
```

Then you can activate the virtual environment created in `.venv` to use python, or prefix all your python commands with `uv run` :

```bash
uv run some_script.py
uv run pytest test/test_fmm.py -s
```

### Without `uv`

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Using `uv`

### Handle python packages

- Install a library: `uv add <library>`
- Remove a library: `uv remove <library>`
- Install libraries from `pyproject.toml`: `uv sync`

### Run tests

After running `uv sync`, you can run the tests in the `test` directory with the following command:

```bash
uv run pytest test/*.py -s
```
